## Context Setting for TANF-UI Wage Data Analysis and Code

Analyzing administrative wage records can help answer key questions about client outcomes (for example, what percentage of TANF clients are employed five years after exit and what is their average salary?), program access and equity (for example, how do employment outcomes of TANF leavers vary by race/ethnicity?), and efficiency and fiscal accountability (for example, providing the most cost-effective supportive services). The accompanying toolkit has a more in-depth discussion of the benefits, limitations, and approaches to linking TANF and UI wage data for analysis. (Note that some causal questions may require the application of rigorous methods to ensure that your analysis findings are valid, so make sure that you have an evaluation expert on your research design team.)

The processing and analysis approach in the TDC-UI wage data code repository assumes the following scenario: A state TANF agency or research organization is looking to explore employment outcomes of adult TANF recipients in the three years following participation in a particular program. It has a two-way data sharing agreement with the state UI agency that allows a match using SSNs on their TANF cases to return individual-level quarterly wage records to cover a specified period of time. The TANF agency sends a request file with a list of SSNs for all program participants extracted from the TANF data. The UI agency matches those SSNs to the wage records in their system, and then securely transfers the UI wage data with SSNs back to the TANF agency. 

Once the UI wage data file is obtained, the first step is to conduct data quality checks to make sure that the match to UI wage records was done correctly, and that the proportion of employed adults and earnings amounts on the file fit within expectations. Once the analyst is fairly confident the data on the UI wage data file are accurate, it can be processed and restructured to create an analysis file. Next, outcomes of interest can be created. The outcome creation SQL code walks through field-tested employment-related outcomes that are used to measure any employment, employment retention and stability, and advancement. Finally, you can link this file back to your TANF cross-reference file to perform your analysis. (The code to link the UI wage data back to the TANF data is not included in this repository, but the process is covered in the toolkit.)

To demonstrate UI wage data linkage and processing, this TDC-UI wage data repository uses a simulated TANF sample and simulated UI wage data. Our simulated sample includes fake SSNs representing adult TANF recipients who entered the program between January 2017 and December 2020, and we have simulated quarterly wage data for the period Q1 2017 to Q1 2021, allowing us to look at their employment in the years following participation in the program. Because people may have begun their participation at different points during this period, the outcome creation section will also look at employment outcomes in follow-up periods relative to their start of participation in the program. More information on using our simulated datasets and running the code can be found in the 03_create_analysis_file folder’s [instructions document](https://github.com/MDRCNY/TDC-UI/tree/main/03_create_analysis_file/00_instructions.md).

In this analysis, an important distinction is made between the presumption of unemployment and treating data as missing. Because of the nature of wage reporting for UI purposes, data will be available only if a person worked in a UI-covered job and their employer reported their earnings as required. Therefore, for quarters included in the data coverage period, anyone without a wage record is presumed to have been unemployed, and we can impute $0 earnings in those cases. On the other hand, quarters outside of the data coverage period should be considered missing. For example, someone who started a program in December 2020 would not have one-year follow-up data on the UI wage file since the most recent quarter of data available on the file is data for early 2021 – so one-year employment-related outcomes should be coded as missing for this person. The code notebooks in this TDC-UI repository illustrate how to properly handle the absence of data and create measures in this situation.
