# Resources for Sustainability Toolkit

This sub-directory of resources accompanies “Strengthening Analytics in Government Agencies: A Toolkit for Sustainable Data Use.” Users should reference the documents in this directory alongside the Toolkit, which includes information and tools for creating a strong and sustainable data culture within your agency. Below you will find a brief description of each document.

**Introduction to Data at the Heart (referenced on page 11 of Toolkit):** This document gives an overview of the data literacy education initiative implemented in California’s Department of Social Services (CDSS). This document describes the goal and components of Data at the Heart. It serves as an example of the foundations of a data literacy initiative for jurisdictions interested in pursuing this type of effort.

**Colorado Request for Proposals (referenced on page 22 of Toolkit):** This is a Request for Proposals (RFP) published by Colorado Department of Human Services (CDHS) that aimed to identify multiple evaluation partners to enter into contract with for ongoing and evolving evaluation needs. This RFP allowed Colorado to create a short-list of evaluators who contracted with the state and could be ready to jump into evaluation activities when needed. This approach has allowed Colorado to complete evaluations relatively quickly. This RFP is provided as an example for other jurisdictions to consult if considering implementing a similar strategy for establishing external partnerships.

**Utah Gatekeeper Role (referenced on page 33 of Toolkit):** This document was created by Utah’s Department of Workforce Services (DWS). It describes the rationale, roles, and responsibilities of the Gatekeeper position the Department created to serve as a liaison between policy and analytic staff when a data report request occurs. This resource can be used as a helpful example for any jurisdiction considering creating a similar role in their department. 

If you have any follow-up questions about these resources, or would like to be connected to the appropriate contact person at each agency to discuss these initiatives further, please contact **Emma Monahan, emonahan@chapinhall.org**
